System Administrator MCQ
1.
You have deployed an HTTP server and you want to use IPTABLES to restrict access to it to only the 192.168.250.0/24 network. The action should be to reject all unwanted traffic without notifying the source of the denied traffic of the rejection. Which command will accomplish that?
Your Answer:


iptables -I OUTPUT -p tcp -m udp --state NEW -f 192.168.250.0/24 --dport 80 -j REJECT

iptables -A INPUT -m tcp -p tcp --state NEW -s 192.168.250.0/24 --dport 80 -j QUEUE

iptables -I INPUT -m tcp -p udp --state NEW -p 192.168.250.0/24 --dport 80 -j REJECT

iptables -A INPUT -m tcp -p tcp --state NEW -s 192.168.250.0/24 --dport 80 -j DROP
2.
Using command substitution, how would you display the value of the present working directory?
Your Answer:


echo $(pwd)

echo pwd

$pwd

pwd | echo
3.
I have created a LVM partition of 10G using ext4. I would like to reduce the size of 5G and change the file system to 'xfs'. Which would be the correct steps?
Your Answer:


(1). Reduce the partition size using 'lvreduce' command. (2). Reduce the ext4 filesystem using 'resize2fs' command. (3). Reboot

It is not possible to change filesystems on the fly.

(1). Reduce the filesystem using 'resize2fs' command. (2). Reduce the partition size using 'lvreduce' command. (3). Rewrite the filesystem using 'mkfs.xfs'

(1). Change the filesystem to xfs. (2).Reduce the size of LVM to 5GB. (3). Reboot
4.
You need to create a user and deny him access to the Bash Shell. What would be your strategy?
Your Answer:


Create the user using the 'useradd' command without setting a password

Create a user and delete his '-/.bashrc' file

Create the user using the 'useradd -s /sbin/nologin' command

Deny the user access to the file /etc/shells
5.
I want to change the type of my logical partition from the standard Linux Partition type to LVM Partition Type. How will I do that?
Your Answer:


Create a new LVM partition and transfer all data to it

Modify the partition type and set the partition type to '8e'

Delete the partition and reset it to LVM '8a'

Modify the partition type and set it to the extended logical partition type
6.
When looking at the /etc/passwd file, you notice that all the password fields contain 'x'. What does this mean?
Your Answer:


The password is encrypted

The system uses shadow passwords

Passwords are blank

All paswords are expired
7.
You have a requirement to set a collaborative directory called 'Reports' for the Marketing Team. You thus create a group called 'marketing' and add users to it. You must then set group ownership to the 'Reports' directory in such a way that, any file or subdirectory automatically inherit the 'marketing' group ownership. What command will satisfy that requirement?
Your Answer:


'chmod -Rv 2777 Reports'

'chmod -Rv g+s Reports'

'chmod -Rv .marketing Reports'

'chmod -Rv u+s Reports'
8.
Which standard library function can be used for calling clean-up tasks of a program that should be executed before terminating the program?
Your Answer:


at abort function

atexit function

atterminate function

at_return function
9.
You have been assigned the job of determining the device usage in the system. Which log file would you examine?
Your Answer:


/var/log/tmp

/var/log/lastlog

/var/log/messages

/var/log/utmp
10.
Which file contains the default environment variables when using the bash shell?
Your Answer:


~/.profile

~/.bash

/etc/profile.d

~/bash
11.
I want to rotate logs in my system and e-mail it to my account. How do I do it?
Your Answer:


logrotate -m Logs

rotatelog -m Logs

logrotate

rotatelog
12.
Vivek wants to changes his login ID from vivek to viv. Which one of the following commands would you execute?
Your Answer:


usermod -I viv vivek

usermod -l vivek viv

usermod -m viv vivek

usermod -m vivek viv
13.
You attempt to log out but receive an error message that you cannot. When you issue the jobs command, you see a process that is running in the background. How can you fix this so that you can logout?
Your Answer:


kill PID-of-the-process

kill job-number-of-process

kill

kill PID-of-the-last-command
14.
Jack leaves the company and you want to delete his account. The system administrator executed userdel jack. However, his home directory was still intact. What arguments should be issued?
Your Answer:


userdel -m jack

userdel -l jack

userdel -d jack

userdel -r jack
15.
What is the use of cron?
Your Answer:


To schedule tasks based on time and date

To schedule time in conjunction with NTP server

To enable logs based on time stamps

Cron is a mechanism to synchronize the network time with the local time
16.
What is the command swapon used for in linux?
Your Answer:


Create a swap area in RAM

Enables swapping of pages

Specifies devices on swapping should take place

Creates a swap partition
17.
Which of the following commands will list last three commands you run excluding itself with history id of these commands:
Your Answer:


history -n 3

history -c 3

fc -l -3

fc -ln -3
18.
You have changed GID of the sales group by editing the /etc/group file. All of the members can change to the group without any problem except for Jack. He cannot even login to the system. What is the problem?
Your Answer:


Jack forgot the password to the group

Jack needs to be added to the group again

Jack has the original GID specified in /etc/passwd file

Jack's account needs to be deleted and created again
19.
How would you allow SELinux to accept to serve Apache Web Server and vsFTP from the same folder?
Your Answer:


It is not possible

Edit /etc/selinux and set the mode to 'enforcing'

Change the boolean values of concerned service of Selinux using 'setsebool -P ' command and setting the value to 1

Open ports 80 and 21 to accept traffic through SELinux
20.
You were asked to create an NFS share for your organization. As Root, you create a NFS share on your Desktop ('/root/Desktop/nfs_share') for others to mount it on their own machines. You export the share successfully, but users can't mount it on their directories. What could have possibly gone wrong?
Your Answer:


The users should configure nfsd service properly

The rpcbind service is off

Not allowed to create a share in the Root home directory

Selinux should be disabled
